# Game_of_Throne
## Introduction
Game of Thrones is the most popular American fantasy television series, an adoption from the famous novel, A Song of Ice and Fire by George R. R. Martin. The setting is a medieval time where people from the seven kingdoms of Westeros and the continent of Essos fought for power and life. The characters are diverse grounds, houses, and culture. The intertwined plots made the stories so appealing and surprising that people start pondering which characters would survive in the dragon’s fire and who would stand last on the battlefield. If you were a character in Game of Thrones, would you survive in given circumstances such as alleged house and social relation? If not, what you should do to increase the chance of living?

## Analysis
Given 1946 characters in the dataset, we find out some circumstances that would make you more likely to live. First, age (or date of birth). The younger you are, or later you were born, the more likely you will be alive. Around half the population in the dataset is born after AC268 and less than 27 years old. If you are less than 27 years old, then you are a lucky bird. Second, popularity. The paradox of good people not living very long does not work in the age of Game of Thrones. Understanding the term, popularity, from an audience’s perspective, people generally like roles who have good human nature, such as resistance and loyalty, and who have some sort of unique personality and charisma. A very good example is seen on Jon Snow, who fought for family and glory against his born label as a bastard. Another is Tyrion Lannister, who is so cunning and witted in so many situations but so loving with a prostitute Shae. In Game of Thrones, if you are naturally ordinary like all other human beings (lacking charisma), you need to gain your popularity by doing good deeds. Work hard to be a good person! Third circumstance, an alive mother. If you are fortunate enough to have a mother, try your best to keep your mother alive. According to the dataset, it increases your likelihood to survive. 

## Conclusion
In order to predict the life or death of a character, the best model is a Gradient Boosting Classification. With the model, we can predict at an 88% accuracy. Based on the important features in the model, we have the following conclusion: 1. Characters which appear in book 4 are more likely to live and which appears in book 1 are more likely to die; 2. Main characters have a higher chance to live. The data indicates the later a character appears in a book, the more likely this character would not live. Also, the total appearance’s positive relationship with “live factor” indicates more chance to survive. The two features altogether apply on main characters which generally appear at the early stage of the story and appear a lot throughout. 3. Higher likelihood of survival for younger characters who alleged to houses with a high percentage of people alive. 

## Assumption
All analysis and modeling are based on some assumptions. First,  there are a few flaws and typo in the dataset: Rhaego’s, Doreah’s age and date of birth, and Groleo’s title, and Joffrey Baratheon’s alleged house. After these typos fixed, we assume all other data is reasonable. Second, missing values are due to unraveled myths of the story, not considered as human mistakes. With this assumption, we do not simply impute the missing values with average, median, or K-Neighbors classification, in order to avoid creating bias in the dataset. To predict the life of any future characters, we can use the Gradient Boosting Model with an expectancy of 88% accurate estimation and with mean AUC value at 0.799.
